# Yuck-Oil-vs-Clean-Renewables
A collection of human-made public domain graphics about energy sources for a viable future.

I created these graphics initially in response to tone deaf comments that "CO2 is good for plants" to support predatory delay in moving away from carbon-based fuels. Carbon-based fuels are sequestered carbon that we have been burning and reintroducing to our environment in an unprecendented rate over the last century. Most of these compounds are toxic, produce toxic by-products when refined, cost energy to distribute, and release toxic compounds when burnt. This has been very useful for industrialization but the waste products have been accumulating in the environment because the environment cannot process it all. If plants and other organisms that capture CO2 were effective, CO2 levels in the atmosphere would not be rising. However CO2 levels are rising indicating natural CO2 sinks are insufficient to combat our CO2 production. All living organisms that use carbon compounds in their energy cycle exhaust CO2 as waste, including plants. Most organisms on Earth have adapted through evolution to what was historically lower and stable CO2 levels and will not thrive in rising CO2 levels. Organisms like humans but, also our food and service animals and the rest of nature as well. CO2 is literally shit.

This is not accounting for the energy trapping effects of CO2. CO2 inhibits radiation of solar energy back into space. This traps more energy within the atmosphere and surface including oceans and land. The effect is similar to shrinking Earth's orbit, moving Earth out of the goldilocks zone for life. In the near future, life that is dependent on reduced temperatures and reduced CO2, which is most life on earth, will not be able to exist outside of highly controlled environments. Earth is the only planet we know of anywhere in the universe where it is possible to thrive without any form of technology through the entire human lifespan. This is important because technology for life support comes with technical, economic, logistical, and ethical problems that provide considerable friction to human living and development.

We are at a pivotal point in human life: we can transition to a post-carbon energy economy or perish in a series of greater and greater then smaller and smaller disasters.

This state was predicted over 100 years ago, confirmed by fossil fuel producing companies 50 years ago, and is a problem for everyone now. CO2 has to be managed aggressively now because there is so much of it and production has been exceeding disposal for generations. Calculations of the public cost to health and the environment for each barrel of refined oil are more than the profits gained. The estimated range of the social cost of oil exceeds the recent prices for a barrel of oil. Delaying the transition away from burning carbon-based fuel for energy to non-carbon energy for most uses at this point is predatory.

We can have a big bright beautiful tomorrow but it comes from using non-carbon energy sources like solar, wind, tidal, geothermal and nuclear, and not coal, natural gas, or oil. The best time to start was last century. The second best time to start is now.

These graphics are designed to present simplified but true messages about our energy sources. They are released into the public domain so anyone can produce and remix copies for themselves for personal or commercial use. There are multiple ways to reduce carbon production and combat climate change and this is but one of them. Use them to make t-shirts, stickers, bumperstickers, signs, billboard. Use them to make money on the way to a post-carbon economy. Use them to make some noise for change.
